Title: Release v1.3.5 - Fixing several smaller issues, adding new translations
Date: 2021-04-05 20:00
Category: News
Tags: PrivateBin, Release
Slug: news/v1.3.5-release
Authors: El RIDO
Summary: This release fixes a number of smaller issues and adds new translations.

**This release fixes a number of smaller issues and adds new translations.**

This bug fix releases addresses a number of smaller issues and regressions, adds four new translations and includes updated libraries. Links in pastes now by default open in a new browser tab or window. The project information text and link is now a configuration option.

## Benefits of switching to the new release

We recommend to upgrade 1.3.x instances to address these issues.

## Update procedure

As usual, you can [download the archive](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/releases/latest) for a manual upgrade and can find more details in the [installation instructions](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/blob/master/INSTALL.md#installation).

We also offer a [Docker container](https://hub.docker.com/r/privatebin/nginx-fpm-alpine/) that includes the recommended secure setup with the non-essential files and data outside of the web servers document root.

If you have enabled the `fileupload` setting and use a custom `cspheader`, please consider adding `allow-downloads` to the `sandbox` property. This lets users of the Google Chrome browser, version 83 or higher, download attachments - inline display of images, media or PDFs files was not affected by this change in Chrome's sandbox behaviour.

## Changes since version 1.3.4

* ADDED: Translation for Hebrew, Lithuanian, Indonesian and Catalan
* ADDED: Make the project info configurable (#681)
* CHANGED: Upgrading libraries to: DOMpurify 2.2.7, kjua 0.9.0 & random_compat 2.0.18
* CHANGED: Open all links in new window (#630)
* FIXED: PDF display in Firefox (#630)
* FIXED: Allow pasting into password input dialog (#630)
* FIXED: Display of expiration date in email (#630)
* FIXED: Allow display of durations in weeks (#630)
* FIXED: Avoid exposing burn-after-reading messages from cache (#630)
* FIXED: Only display the dropzone when it should (#630)
* FIXED: Detect delete token properly (#630)
* FIXED: Sanitize output from `Helper.urls2links()` (#630)
* FIXED: Avoid recreation of existing pasteurl element when calling URL shortener (#630)
* FIXED: Downloads in Chrome >= 83 (#634)
* FIXED: Display of empty files (#663)
* FIXED: Improve OpenGraph attributes (#651)
* FIXED: Reset to configured burn-after-reading, discussion and expiration settings (#682)
* FIXED: Italic segment of project information (#756)

## Help wanted & greatly appreciated

Apart from the large tasks that require deeper insight and time, there are also [smaller issues were help is wanted](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22), topics [open to debate](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22discuss+me%22+) and of course many languages that still remain to be [translated](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/wiki/Translation). We are also still looking for additional long term maintainers among our frequent issue helpers.

If you are interested in helping with any of these points, we have prepared a [development guide](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/wiki/Development) including design goals, code structure and tools that should get you started.

## Plans for future releases

The next regular release will focus on [user interface improvements](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/milestone/6).

