Title: Release v1.7.0 - Ask for confirmation, before loading burn after reading pastes
Date: 2024-02-11 14:52
Category: News
Tags: PrivateBin, Release
Slug: news/v1.7.0-release
Authors: El RIDO
Summary: This release asks for confirmation, before loading burn after reading pastes.

**This release asks for confirmation, before loading burn after reading pastes.**

In addition the new translations for the Romanian language got added, detection for damaged pastes during purge got introduced and a few minor user interface glitches resolved.

## Update procedure

As usual, you can [download the archive](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/releases/latest) for a manual upgrade and can find more details in the [installation instructions](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/blob/master/doc/Installation.md#installation).

We also offer a [container images using the nginx web server with php-fpm](https://hub.docker.com/r/privatebin/nginx-fpm-alpine/) and one using the [nginx unit application server](https://hub.docker.com/r/privatebin/unit-alpine/), that include the recommended secure setup with the non-essential files and data outside of the web servers document root.

## Changes since version 1.6.2

* ADDED: Translations for Romanian
* ADDED: Detect and report on damaged pastes (#1218)
* CHANGED: Ask for confirmation, before loading burn after reading pastes (#1237)
* CHANGED: Focus on password input in modal dialog
* CHANGED: Upgrading libraries to: DOMpurify 3.0.8 & zlib 1.3.1
* FIXED: Support more types of valid URLs for shorteners, incl. IDN ones (#1224)
* FIXED: Email timezone buttons overlapping in some languages (#1039)
* FIXED: Changing language mangles URL (#1191)
* FIXED: Needless reload when visiting default URL

## Changes since version 1.6.1

* FIXED: English not selectable when `languageselection` enabled (#1208)
* FIXED: SRI mismatch due to cached file having changed (#1207)

## Changes since version 1.6.0

* ADDED: Right-To-Left (RTL) support for Arabic & Hebrew (#1174)
* CHANGED: Upgrading libraries to: DOMpurify 3.0.6

## Help wanted & greatly appreciated

Apart from the large tasks that require deeper insight and time, there are also [smaller issues were help is wanted](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22), topics [open to debate](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22discuss+me%22+) and of course many languages that still remain to be [translated](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/wiki/Translation). We are also still looking for additional long term maintainers among our frequent issue helpers.

What can we offer you in return for your help?

* We can offer you our mentorship, if this is your first time participating as a maintainer of an open source software project. We can guide you through submitting your first pull requests and work with you to ensure your change fulfils the communities quality standards, gets merged and makes it into a release.
* Your work gets publicly credited. This can help you build up a resume, showing off your growing skill set, in programming as well as your soft skills.
* PrivateBin is a smaller project. If you'd like to learn how to participate and contribute in an open source git project, this should be less overwhelming then larger projects.
* We do have a decent unit test code coverage, so it is an environment forgiving of mistakes. You may still introduce logical flaws or issues in new features, not yet covered in the tests, but you can rely on the tests preventing any regressions in other areas.
* You don't have to be proficient in multiple programming languages, there are a lot of things to improve within either the JavaScript or PHP areas that don't need you to understand the other side, beyond their shared API.
* It can be an opportunity to learn about continuous integration tools to automate tasks like tests, security scans, etc.

If you are interested in helping with any of these points, we have prepared a [development guide](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/wiki/Development) including design goals, code structure and tools to get you started. For any questions, you can chat with the maintainers in the [discussion](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/discussions) area or reach us via [email](mailto:support@privatebin.org).
