Title: Release v2.0.0 - Changes configuration defaults & template
Date: 2025-07-31 13:37
Category: News
Tags: PrivateBin, Release
Slug: news/v2.0.0-release
Authors: El RIDO
Summary: This release changes configuration defaults including switching the template and removing legacy features.

**This release changes configuration defaults including switching the template and removing legacy features.**

The most notable change is the switch of the default template to `bootstrap5`. We also switched to the Jdenticons library by default for the comment creator icons, as it doesn't require the GD library.

The `page` template and compatibility to pre-v1.3 pastes, including ZeroBin ones, got removed. The `v2` paste format which is still currently used, got introduced in release 1.3 in July 2019. This allows dropping further unused database columns, as those were artifacts of the `v1` pastes and not used anymore with the `v2` ones.

## Update procedure

If you have created your own `cfg/conf.php` file, please check the following entries and update them accordingly:

* section `[main]`, key `template`: If set to `page` replace this with `bootstrap5` or one of the `bootstrap` variants (see [`cfg/conf.sample.php`](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/blob/2.0.0/cfg/conf.sample.php#L60-L63).
* section `[main]`, key `icon`: If commented and you prefer the look of the blocky `identicon` over triangular `jdenticon`, uncomment the value and set it back to `identicon`.
* section `[model]`, key `class`: If set to `privatebin_data` replace this with `Filesystem` and if set to `privatebin_db` or `zerobin_db` replace this with `Database`.

If you are using the `Database` model class and your database user is not privileged to perform schema changes, you have to manually drop the `postdate`, `opendiscussion`, `burnafterreading`, `attachment` and `attachmentname` columns of the `paste` table and the `nickname` column from the `comment` table. If you are using SQLite before 3.35.0, which doesn't support dropping columns, you must initialize a new empty database file and either manually migrate the data or start from scratch.

As usual, you can [download the archive](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/releases/latest) for a manual upgrade and can find more details in the [installation instructions](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/blob/master/doc/Installation.md#installation).

We also offer a [container images using the nginx web server with php-fpm](https://hub.docker.com/r/privatebin/nginx-fpm-alpine/) and one using the [nginx unit application server](https://hub.docker.com/r/privatebin/unit-alpine/), that include the recommended secure setup with the non-essential files and data outside of the web servers document root.

Optionally, you can use the `bin/administration` scripts' two new features to check if any `v1` pastes still exist on your instance using the `--statistics` flag and then delete them using the `--delete-v1` flag:

```
$ bin/administration --help
Usage:
  administration [--delete <paste id> | --delete-all | --delete-v1 |
                  --empty-dirs | --help | --list-ids | --purge | --statistics]

Options:
[...]
  --delete-v1       deletes all unsupported v1 pastes
[...]
  -s, --statistics  reads all stored pastes and comments and reports statistics
$ bin/administration --statistics
[... check for lines starting with "Unsupported v1 paste " and the conclusion showing any "Legacy v1" ...]
$ bin/administration --delete-v1
```

## Changes since version 1.7.8

* ADDED: Error logging in database and filesystem backend (#1554)
* ADDED: Statistics on v1 pastes in administration script and option to delete them
* CHANGED: Removed page template (#265)
* CHANGED: Removed support for ZeroBin & v1 pastes - since release 1.3 the v2 format is used (#551)
* CHANGED: Removed use of base64 & rawinflate libraries (#551)
* CHANGED: Removed support for `privatebin_data`, `privatebin_db` & `zerobin_db` model class configurations, must be replaced with `Filesystem` or `Database` in `cfg/conf.php`, if still present
* CHANGED: Removed unused columns in database schema of tables `paste` & `comment`
* CHANGED: Jdenticons are now used as the default icons
* CHANGED: Upgrading libraries to: base-x 5.0.1, bootstrap 5.3.7, jdenticon 2.0.0 & kjua 0.10.0
* CHANGED: Minimum required PHP version is 7.4, due to a change in the jdenticon library
* CHANGED: Set bootstrap5 template as default for PrivateBin (#1572)
* FIXED: Name mismatches in attached files (#1584)
* FIXED: Unable to paste attachments from clipboard (#1589)
* FIXED: Configuration combinations test errors

## Changes since version 1.7.7
* FIXED: Duplicate attachment for every comment (#1577)
* FIXED: Attachments with empty file names (#1577)
* FIXED: Page template scripts loading order (#1579)

## Changes since version 1.7.6
* ADDED: Switching templates using the web ui (#1501)
* ADDED: Show file name and size on download page (#603)
* CHANGED: Passing large data structures by reference to reduce memory consumption (#858)
* CHANGED: Removed use of ctype functions and polyfill library for ctype
* CHANGED: Upgrading libraries to: DOMpurify 3.2.6, ip-lib 1.20.0
* CHANGED: Support for multiple file uploads (#1060)
* CHANGED: Documented CSP change necessary to allow PDF attachment preview (#1552)
* FIXED: Hide Reply button in the discussions once clicked to avoid losing the text input (#1508)
* FIXED: Bump zlib library suffix, ensuring cache refresh for WASM streaming change
* FIXED: Handle undefined globals in file based persisted values (#1544)

## Help wanted & greatly appreciated

Apart from the large tasks that require deeper insight and time, there are also [smaller issues were help is wanted](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22), topics [open to debate](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22discuss+me%22+) and of course many languages that still remain to be [translated](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/wiki/Translation). We are also still looking for additional long term maintainers among our frequent issue helpers.

What can we offer you in return for your help?

* We can offer you our mentorship, if this is your first time participating as a maintainer of an open source software project. We can guide you through submitting your first pull requests and work with you to ensure your change fulfils the communities quality standards, gets merged and makes it into a release.
* Your work gets publicly credited. This can help you build up a resume, showing off your growing skill set, in programming as well as your soft skills.
* PrivateBin is a smaller project. If you'd like to learn how to participate and contribute in an open source git project, this should be less overwhelming than larger projects.
* We do have a decent unit test code coverage, so it is an environment forgiving of mistakes. You may still introduce logical flaws or issues in new features, not yet covered in the tests, but you can rely on the tests preventing any regressions in other areas.
* You don't have to be proficient in multiple programming languages, there are a lot of things to improve within either the JavaScript or PHP areas that don't need you to understand the other side, beyond their shared API.
* It can be an opportunity to learn about continuous integration tools to automate tasks like tests, security scans, etc.

If you are interested in helping with any of these points, we have prepared a [development guide](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/wiki/Development) including design goals, code structure and tools to get you started. For any questions, you can chat with the maintainers in the [discussion](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/discussions) area or reach us via [email](mailto:support@privatebin.org).
